# [Firedancer](https://jumpcrypto.com/firedancer/) ðŸ”¥ðŸ’ƒ

Firedancer is a new validator client for Solana.

* **Fast** Designed from the ground up to be *fast*. The concurrency
model draws from experience in the low latency trading space, and the code
contains many novel high performance reimplementations of core Solana
primitives.
* **Secure** The architecture of the validator allows it to run with a
highly restrictive sandbox and almost no system calls.
* **Independent** Firedancer is written from scratch. This brings client
diversity to the Solana network and helps it stay resilient to supply
chain attacks in build tooling or dependencies.

## Documentation
If you are an operator or looking to run the validator, see the Getting
Started guide in the [Firedancer
docs](https://docs.firedancer.io/)

## Releases
If you are an operator looking to run the validator, see the [Releases
Guide](https://docs.firedancer.io/guide/getting-started.html#releases)
in the documentation.

The Firedancer project is producing two validators,

* **Frankendancer** A hybrid validator using parts of Firedancer and
parts of Agave. Frankendancer uses the Firedancer networking stack and
block production components to perform better while leader. Other
functionality including execution and consensus is using the Agave
validator code.
* **Firedancer** A full from-scratch Firedancer with no Agave code.

Both validators are built from this codebase. The Firedancer validator
is not ready for test or production use and has no releases.
Frankendancer is currently available on both Solana testnet and
mainnet-beta.

## License
Firedancer is available under the [Apache 2
license](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). Firedancer also
includes external libraries that are available under a variety of
licenses. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.
